README.md, before:

# MorphEdit Audio Editor

<div align="center">

![MorphEdit Logo](./public/MorphEdit-Logo.png)

## Professional audio editing for Samplers and beyond

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/carlosedp/morphedit)](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/releases) [![Security Scan](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/security.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/security.yml) [![CI](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/ci.yml) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

[Download](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/releases) • [Documentation](./public/USER_MANUAL.md) • [Report Bug](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/issues) • [Request Feature](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/issues)

</div>

## 🎵 About

MorphEdit is a powerful, browser-based audio editor designed for preparing audio files for samplers and hardware instruments. While offering some features for the **MakeNoise Morphagene** granular synthesis module, it serves as a versatile tool for general audio editing tasks including splicing, cropping, fading, and concatenation making it perfect for audio sample manipulation across various sampling devices.

**No installation required** - runs entirely in your browser with professional-grade audio processing capabilities.

**Complete privacy** - all audio processing happens locally in your browser, ensuring your files never leave your device and **never get uploaded to a server**.

![MorphEdit Screenshot](./public/img/overview.png)

## ✨ Key Features

### 🎯 **Splice Marker Management**

- Add, remove, and lock splice points with precision
- Automatic transient detection with adjustable sensitivity
- Zero-crossing snap to prevent audio artifacts
- Play individual splice markers with keyboard shortcuts (1-0, Q-P)
- Import existing cue points from audio files

### 🎛️ **Professional Audio Processing**

- **Tempo and Pitch Processing**: Professional-grade tempo and pitch shifting with RubberBand
- Multiple fade curve types (linear, exponential, logarithmic)
- Crop regions with sample-accurate precision
- Audio concatenation with preserved splice markers
- Normalization and gain adjustment
- BPM detection and display

### 📤 **Flexible Export Options**

- Multiple sample rates and bit depths for other samplers
- Optimized Morphagene format (48kHz, 32-bit WAV)
- Export individual splice segments
- Batch processing support
- **Configurable Defaults**: Customizable export formats and processing settings

### 🖥️ **Modern Interface**

- Responsive design for desktop, tablet, and mobile
- High-resolution waveform visualization
- Mouse wheel zoom with smooth navigation
- Material-UI components for professional appearance
- Comprehensive keyboard shortcuts
- **Customizable Settings**: Configurable fade curves, crossfade duration, detection sensitivity, and export formats

### 🔧 **Advanced Workflow**

- Drag-and-drop file loading
- Multiple file concatenation
- Undo/redo functionality
- Background processing indicators
- File length warnings and truncation options
- **Persistent Configuration**: Settings automatically saved and preserved across sessions

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Option 1: Use Online (Recommended)

Visit the [live application](https://carlosedp.github.io/morphedit/) - no installation required!

### Option 2: Download Desktop App

Download the latest release for your platform from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/releases).

### Option 3: Run from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit.git
cd morphedit
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) to view the application.

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Complete User Manual](./public/USER_MANUAL.md)** - Comprehensive guide with screenshots
- **[Feature List](./docs/FeatureList.md)** - Detailed feature tracking and roadmap
- **[Auto-Update Setup](./docs/AUTO_UPDATE_SETUP.md)** - Desktop app update configuration

## 🎯 Perfect for Morphagene Users and Eurorack Sampler users

MorphEdit streamlines the Morphagene workflow by:

- **Optimal File Preparation**: Exports in Morphagene's preferred 48kHz/32-bit format
- **Splice Point Precision**: Zero-crossing alignment prevents clicks and pops
- **Length Management**: Automatic 174-second length optimization
- **Tempo Matching**: Adjust audio tempo to fit your composition timing
- **Pitch Correction**: Transpose samples to match your musical key
- **Cue Point Support**: Imports and exports standard cue points
- **Preview Playback**: Test splice points before transferring to hardware

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19, TypeScript, Material-UI
- **Audio Processing**: WaveSurfer.js, Web Audio API, RubberBand WASM
- **State Management**: Zustand
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Desktop**: Electron
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [WaveSurfer.js](https://wavesurfer-js.org/) for audio visualization
- Audio processing powered by [RubberBand](https://breakfastquay.com/rubberband/) for tempo and pitch shifting
- Designed for the [MakeNoise Morphagene](https://www.makenoisemusic.com/modules/morphagene) community and beyond
- Icons from [Material-UI Icons](https://mui.com/material-ui/material-icons/)

---

<div align="center">

Made with ❤️ for the modular synthesis community

[⭐ Star this repo](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit) if you find it useful!

</div>

Commit message:

feat: add PWA support with service worker and manifest
- Updated package.json to include vite-plugin-pwa and added build:pwa script.
- Created public/manifest.json for PWA configuration.
- Added service worker (public/sw.js) to handle caching and offline functionality.
- Registered service worker in main.tsx for PWA capabilities.
- Enhanced vite.config.ts to configure PWA settings and caching strategies.

README.md, after:

# MorphEdit Audio Editor

<div align="center">

![MorphEdit Logo](./public/MorphEdit-Logo.png)

## Professional audio editing for Samplers and beyond

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/carlosedp/morphedit)](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/releases) [![Security Scan](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/security.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/security.yml) [![CI](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/actions/workflows/ci.yml) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

[Download](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/releases) • [Documentation](./public/USER_MANUAL.md) • [Report Bug](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/issues) • [Request Feature](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/issues)

</div>

## 🎵 About

MorphEdit is a powerful, browser-based audio editor designed for preparing audio files for samplers and hardware instruments. While offering some features for the **MakeNoise Morphagene** granular synthesis module, it serves as a versatile tool for general audio editing tasks including splicing, cropping, fading, and concatenation making it perfect for audio sample manipulation across various sampling devices.

**No installation required** - runs entirely in your browser with professional-grade audio processing capabilities.

**Complete privacy** - all audio processing happens locally in your browser, ensuring your files never leave your device and **never get uploaded to a server**.

![MorphEdit Screenshot](./public/img/overview.png)

## ✨ Key Features

### 🎯 **Splice Marker Management**

- Add, remove, and lock splice points with precision
- Automatic transient detection with adjustable sensitivity
- Zero-crossing snap to prevent audio artifacts
- Play individual splice markers with keyboard shortcuts (1-0, Q-P)
- Import existing cue points from audio files

### 🎛️ **Professional Audio Processing**

- **Tempo and Pitch Processing**: Professional-grade tempo and pitch shifting with RubberBand
- Multiple fade curve types (linear, exponential, logarithmic)
- Crop regions with sample-accurate precision
- Audio concatenation with preserved splice markers
- Normalization and gain adjustment
- BPM detection and display

### 📤 **Flexible Export Options**

- Multiple sample rates and bit depths for other samplers
- Optimized Morphagene format (48kHz, 32-bit WAV)
- Export individual splice segments
- Batch processing support
- **Configurable Defaults**: Customizable export formats and processing settings

### 🖥️ **Modern Interface**

- Responsive design for desktop, tablet, and mobile
- High-resolution waveform visualization
- Mouse wheel zoom with smooth navigation
- Material-UI components for professional appearance
- Comprehensive keyboard shortcuts
- **Customizable Settings**: Configurable fade curves, crossfade duration, detection sensitivity, and export formats

### 🔧 **Advanced Workflow**

- Drag-and-drop file loading
- Multiple file concatenation
- Undo/redo functionality
- Background processing indicators
- File length warnings and truncation options
- **Persistent Configuration**: Settings automatically saved and preserved across sessions

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Option 1: Use Online (Recommended)

Visit the [live application](https://carlosedp.github.io/morphedit/) - no installation required!

### Option 2: Install as PWA (Progressive Web App)

For offline use and a native app experience:

1. Visit the [live application](https://audioedit.carlosedp.com) in Chrome, Firefox*, or Edge
2. Look for the "Install" button in your browser's address bar or menu
3. Click "Install MorphEdit" to add it to your desktop/home screen
4. Launch anytime as a standalone app with full offline functionality

**Benefits of PWA installation:**
- Works offline after initial load
- Native app-like experience
- No browser UI clutter
- Desktop shortcut/app launcher integration
- Automatic updates when online

*Note: Firefox may require enabling PWA support in `about:config` (search for `browser.taskbarTabs.enabled`) and restart your browser.

### Option 3: Download Desktop App

Download the latest release for your platform from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit/releases).

### Option 4: Run from Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit.git
cd morphedit
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) to view the application.

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Complete User Manual](./public/USER_MANUAL.md)** - Comprehensive guide with screenshots
- **[Feature List](./docs/FeatureList.md)** - Detailed feature tracking and roadmap
- **[Auto-Update Setup](./docs/AUTO_UPDATE_SETUP.md)** - Desktop app update configuration
- **[PWA Deployment Guide](./docs/PWA_DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Progressive Web App installation and offline usage

## 🎯 Perfect for Morphagene Users and Eurorack Sampler users

MorphEdit streamlines the Morphagene workflow by:

- **Optimal File Preparation**: Exports in Morphagene's preferred 48kHz/32-bit format
- **Splice Point Precision**: Zero-crossing alignment prevents clicks and pops
- **Length Management**: Automatic 174-second length optimization
- **Tempo Matching**: Adjust audio tempo to fit your composition timing
- **Pitch Correction**: Transpose samples to match your musical key
- **Cue Point Support**: Imports and exports standard cue points
- **Preview Playback**: Test splice points before transferring to hardware

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19, TypeScript, Material-UI
- **Audio Processing**: WaveSurfer.js, Web Audio API, RubberBand WASM
- **State Management**: Zustand
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Desktop**: Electron  
- **PWA Support**: Service Worker, Web App Manifest, Offline Caching
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [WaveSurfer.js](https://wavesurfer-js.org/) for audio visualization
- Audio processing powered by [RubberBand](https://breakfastquay.com/rubberband/) for tempo and pitch shifting
- Designed for the [MakeNoise Morphagene](https://www.makenoisemusic.com/modules/morphagene) community and beyond
- Icons from [Material-UI Icons](https://mui.com/material-ui/material-icons/)

---

<div align="center">

Made with ❤️ for the modular synthesis community

[⭐ Star this repo](https://github.com/carlosedp/morphedit) if you find it useful!

</div>
